
\`\`\`{r, include = FALSE} knitr::opts\_chunk$set( collapse = TRUE,
comment = “\#&gt;”, fig.path = “man/figures/README-”, out.width = “75%”,
warning = FALSE, message = FALSE, fig.retina = 2, fig.align = ‘center’ )
library(tidyverse)

\`\`\`

<!-- badges: start -->

\[![MCR](http://mcr.lternet.edu/) <!-- badges: end -->

Coral reefs are one of the most diverse ecosystems on the planet and
provide valuable ecosystem services for many coastal communities,
however they are significantly threatened through a suite of
environmental and anthropogenic stressors (Moberg & Folke, 1999,
Woodhead et al. 2019). Understanding spatial and temporal patterns of
both global and local drivers is critical for predicting future
conditions and developing mitigation strategies.

The National Science Foundation (NSF) funded Moorea Coral Reef Long Term
Ecological Research (MCR LTER) project has been collecting temporal and
spatial data on the shallow reefs surrounding Moorea, French Polynesia
since 2005. The study sites have undergone multiple ecosystem shocks
since data collection began on the fore reef, including heat waves,
coral-eating sea stars, and a major cyclone (Holbrook et al. 2018). The
six long term research sites have responded differently to these shocks
(Holbrook et al. 2018). The data utilized in this project focuses on
nutrient loading and coral bleaching of the lagoon surrounding Moorea
(Adams et al. 2021, Donovan et al. 2020). Currently there are knowledge
gaps in understanding how nutrients affect lagoon dynamics surrounding
coral reef atolls and a platform where these differences can be compared
is needed (Adams et al. 2021, Donovan et al. 2020). These knowledge gaps
have been addressed by creating an easy to use Shiny application to
visualize and analyze the geo-spatial ecological data collected in
Moorea.
